PA1: ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS

/*
* Name    : Shravani Yellu
* Unity ID: syellu
*/


1. What are the advantages and disadvantages of each of the two scheduling policies? Also, give the advantages and disadvantages of the round robin scheduling policy originally implemented in Xinu.

Exponential Distribution Scheduler
 Advantages : The chances of starvation of low priority process which is usually the case with most scheduling policies 
 is low, since it is based on random values generated by exponential distribution. By changing the value of lambda the programmer has flexibility to change exponential distribution according to requirement.  
 
 Disadvantages : It is not a fair scheduler as the probability of choosing a process is not uniform. The chance of starvation of high priority process increases exponentially as the process priority increases. It causes priority inversion where a higher priority process is switched with lower priority processes.
 
Linux-like Scheduler
 Advantages : There is no starvation and randomization of processes, as each and every process in ready queue is given CPU time in every epoch. This is based on a dynamic value called "goodness" which allows a process to carry forward the left over CPU allocated time from the previous EPOCH.So, it gives more preference to the process which dint use its allocated CPU time in previous EPOCH. Thus, it is a fair scheduler 
 
 Disadvantages : It adds additional over-head to the system since quantum, goodness and counter values are calculated when ever reshced is called.Due to which when there are large number of process its times complexity will be more.

Round Robin Xinu Scheduling
 Advantages : It is a simple scheduling process which doesnt involve much calculations and it gives priority to the process having high priority.When some processes have same priority it gives equal preference to them.
 
 Disadvantages : It is not a fair scheduler as it causes starvation of a low priority processes if there is a high priority process which doesnt yeild CPU at all.Even if resched is called after a particular time quantum it again selects a high priority process till it ends.


2. Describe the way each of the schedulers affects the NULL process.
 Exponential Distribution Scheduler : If there are no processes in the ready queue NULL process is scheduled.
 Linux-like Scheduler : If there are no processes in the ready queue for that epoch then NULL prcoess is scheduled in that epoch. 
 Xinu Scheduler : Since priority of NULL process is zero it is scheduled only when no processes are there in ready queue.